# NUI (Navigation User Interface)

### Abstract
NUI (Navigation User Interface) is a core system designed to facilitate user navigation between different objects within the application.

## Components
### INUI

```c#
public interface INUI : INexus, INotifyPropertyChanged
{
   [IgnoreModifiable]
   public bool IsReadonly { get; }
   [IgnoreModifiable]
   public NUISetting Settings { get; }
   [IgnoreModifiable]
   public INUINavigation[] Navigations { get; }
}
```

`INUI` requires the implementation of the `INexus` interface as well as `INotifyPropertyChanged`.

Any Object that implements this interface can be used as a navigation point in the NUI system or as a source for navigation points.

### INUINavigation

```c#
public interface INUINavigation
{
   public INUI Target { get; }
   public string ToolStripString { get; }
}
```

`INUINavigation` represents a navigation point that links to a target `INUI` object. It includes a `ToolStripString` property for display purposes.

### NUISetting

```c#
public class NUISetting(Enum title,
                        Enum[] viewFields,
                        Enum[] embeddedFields,
                        Enum[] shortInfoFields)
{
   public Enum Title { get; set; } = title;

   public Enum[] ViewFields { get; set; } = viewFields;

   public Enum[] EmbeddedFields { get; set; } = embeddedFields;

   public Enum[] ShortInfoFields { get; set; } = shortInfoFields;
}
```

Each `INUI` object has an associated `NUISetting` that defines how the object should be displayed in the navigation interface. Each enum property corresponds to a field in the object generated by the `INexus` code generation.

There are **3** display modes:
- **View Mode**: Displays detailed information about the object using the fields specified in `ViewFields`. The title of the view is specified by the `Title` property.
- **Embedded Mode**: Displays a compact view of the object using the fields specified in `EmbeddedFields`.
- **Short Info Mode**: Displays a brief summary (one liner) of the object using the fields specified in `ShortInfoFields`.

### ToStringArgumentsAttribute

```c#
[AttributeUsage(AttributeTargets.Property | AttributeTargets.Field)]
public sealed class ToStringArgumentsAttribute(string format) : Attribute
{
   public string Format { get; } = format;
}
```

The `ToStringArgumentsAttribute` can be applied to properties or fields to specify a custom format for the `ToString` method which is used by the NUI system to generate display strings.

### NUINavHistory

```c#
public class NUINavHistory
{
   public INUI Target { get; }
   public bool GenerateSubViews { get; }
   public ContentPresenter Root { get; }
}
```

`NUINavHistory` represents a navigation history entry, storing the target `INUI` object, a flag indicating whether to generate subviews, and a reference to the root `ContentPresenter`.

### NUIViewGenerator

```c#
public static class NUIViewGenerator
{
   public static void GenerateAndSetView(NUINavHistory navHistory)
   {
   }

   public static UserControl GenerateView(NUINavHistory navHistory)
   {
   }
}
```

`NUIViewGenerator` is a static class responsible for generating views based on the provided `NUINavHistory`. It includes methods to generate and set views as well as to generate views independently. 

The only two public methods are `GenerateAndSetView` and `GenerateView` with `GenerateAndSetView` being a convenience method that calls `GenerateView` and sets the generated view to the `ContentPresenter` in the `NUINavHistory`.

Any UI element that wants to display an `INUI` object can use these methods to generate the appropriate view based on the object's settings.